Troubleshooting filters (#17316)
metabase/metabase: docs/troubleshooting-guide/linked-filters.md

# My linked filters don't work

Metabase lets you [link filters][linked-filter-gloss] so that (for example) if a dashboard contains both a "State" and a "City" filter, the "City" filter only shows cities in the state selected by the "State" filter; the article ["Linking filters in dashboards"][learn-linking] explains how to set them up.

In order to fix problems associated with linked filters, you need a clear understanding of how they work:

1. A filter isn't part of a specific question. Instead, a filter is added to a dashboard and its value is used to fill in a variable in a question (or in several questions).

> 2. In order for Metabase to display a dropdown list of possible filter values, it must know that the filter corresponds to a category. If the question is created using the Notebook Editor, this happens automatically, since Metabase analyzes the query as it turns the graphical representation into SQL.

Reviewer: Lets avoid writing about SQL here.
```suggestion
2. In order for Metabase to display a dropdown list of possible filter values, it must know that the column corresponds to a category. If the question is created from tables via the graphical editor (Simple question or Custom question), this happens automatically, since Metabase has knowledge about the table and columns from synchronization.
```

> 3. If the question that contains the variable is written in SQL, on the other hand, the author of the question must have selected "Field Filter" to tell Metabase that the variable should be displayed like a category. In addition, someone must have edited the metadata for the database to specify that the column in question is a category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If the question that contains the variable is written in SQL, on the other hand, the author of the question must have selected "Field Filter". Also, the field referenced must be set to category in the Data Model to show a dropdown list of values.
```

## My linked filter seems to have no effect

**How to detect this:** After creating and applying a linked filter, you see the same set of rows that you saw before the second (linked) filter was applied.

**How to fix this:**

1. The most common cause is that the filters have been linked in the wrong direction. If you want the values shown by Filter B to be restricted by the setting of Filter A, you have to change the settings for Filter B, not Filter A---i.e., the downstream filter has the setting, not the upstream filter.

2. A less common cause is that all of the rows that pass the first test also pass the second. Again, you can check this by writing a native SQL query that you think should produce the reduced result; if it does not, the problem is most likely with the logic.

## My linked filter widget does not display a dropdown of filtered values

> **How to detect this:** After linking Filter A to Filter B, you expect Filter B to display a dropdown showing only the values constrained by the current setting of Filter A. Instead, the dropdown shows all available values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How to detect this:** After linking Filter B to Filter A, you expect Filter B to display a dropdown showing only the values constrained by the current setting of Filter A. Instead, the dropdown shows all available values.
```
